Grocery Shopping in Seattle
Published on October 05, 2009.
As some of you may know, grocery shopping is very important to me.
It’s one of my favorite adult activities to partake in.
Which is to say that grocery shopping is one of those things that you do after making the transition from kid to adult.
Or at least that’s what I like tricking myself into believing.
In Michigan, I went to Meijer , because it pretty much had everything I needed.
I’d also make a side trip to Trader Joe’s maybe once a month for hippie supplies.
Now, in a new city, I must figure out where to get my foods and stuffs.
Meijer is strictly a Midwest chain, unfortunately.
Now, the obvious choice would be to pick the closest grocery.
It’s pretty easy to calculate the distance to the closest grocery because I live above the PCC Food co-op thingy .
Literally. I am on the fifth floor and they take up the first floor in my building.
I could literally jump down to the store entrance.
Actually, a firefighter pole setup might be safer and cooler, but I’ll have to ask my landlord about it.
The PCC is pretty high quality; it makes Trader Joe’s look like Wal-mart.
But things there also cost an arm and a leg (good thing I upped my accidental death and dismemberment insurance (AD&D)).
So I go there for quick and inexpensive things, like bananas or other produce, or when I really need something bad (like tofu).
Also, PCC doesn’t sell anything that’s not “natural,” so I can’t get goldfish crackers or Drain-o there.
There is a Trader Joe’s in Ballard that’s pretty nearby that I’m hitting often.
I also just discovered a Fred Meyer (I dunno if there’s a relation to Meijer) that has a Chase bank in it (bonus points, just like my old Meijer!).
The Fred Meyer is gigantic and pretty close to Wal-mart vibe.
I’ve also gone to Safeway for my unnatural foods.
When I shop at the University Village, I can hit up the QFC (which is like Kroger/Smith’s) on the way.
I haven’t been to Whole Foods yet, but I don’t see a reason to with the Whole Foods-ish PCC taking care of my overpriced grocery needs.
There’s also apparently a place in Ballard called Ballard Market (appropriately) that’s supposed to be pretty decent.
I’ve also gone to the Asian market, Uwajimaya, in the International District, but that’s more of a specialty case.
Also, I don’t eat enough food to shop at Costco ( orange juice excluded from this statement).
As you can see, I am a bit obsessive about grocery shopping.
I haven’t found a store that has all the stuff I need/want in one location at the price I’d like to pay.
So for now I think I’ll forage around multiple stores, which is inconvenient but somewhat necessary.
Ever since I read The Omnivore’s Dilemma, I feel like I should be a bit more careful in the purchasing and preparation of my food.
I don’t feel too bad spending a chunk of change on something at PCC.
Unless, of course, there’s a random markup and I can get the same thing somewhere else for 40% less.
Oh, and I just got a hold for In Defense of Food at the library, so hopefully that will make me a bit less picky.